
FROM THE DIRECTOR 


 
Greetings. Summer has finally arrived and has done so with gusto. As usual, change and activity at UCF and in IS are also occurring with gusto. As a result of changes in personnel a number of new things are now under the direction of Interdisciplinary Studies. Those new items include the oversight of the General Education Program, the university Unifying Theme, the BAS degree, and university/state col-lege/community college/pre-college curriculum alignment. 
We recently bid adieu to Ashley Eden. She is off to the University of South Dakota to assume a challeng-ing new position as Assistant Direc-tor of Student Services. While we will miss working with Ashley, we are very happy for her to have this wonderful opportunity. 
This summer we have the good for-tune of being able to offer several opportunities for employment. We are searching for an Adviser to fill the position that Ashley Eden has left. We are also searching for an instructor to be shared by English and Interdisciplinary Studies. This position is being provided as a re-sult of the generosity of UCF Re-gional Campuses. Additionally, we 

are seeking 3-5 students to par-ticipate in a research project over the Fall, 2010 and Spring, 2011 semesters. The advertisement for those positions is contained in this newsletter. Finally, you will also see an advertisement in this newsletter for a new Peer Adviser or Student Assistant. If you are interested or know of anyone who is interested in any of these posi-tions, please contact us. 
Have a wonderful, productive, and reinvigorating summer. Keep do-ing great things. 
Sincerely, 
 
Dr. Michael D. Hampton 


Office of Interdisciplinary Studies Newsletter 
Summer 2010 

IS
up?
IN THIS ISSUE 
 
FROM THE DIRECTOR 
 1 
 
CONGRATULATIONS, GRADUATES! 
 2 
 
IMPORTANT DATES  
& DEADLINES 
 2 
 
ALUMNI CORNER 
 3 
 
NEW! OPPORTUNITIES 
 5 
 
GIVING TO IDS 
 6 
 

What
A degree
for the
21st Century
G






Interdisciplinary Studies graduates walked across the stage marking their last symbolic act as  
Undergraduates at UCF during the spring commencement ceremony on May 8th, 2009.  
Over 200 I.S. students graduated this spring and we want to congratulate all of our graduates.  
Good luck in your future endeavors! 

CONGRATULATIONS GRADUATES!

Summa Cum Laude honors  
designees (top 2.5 percent of their graduating class)  
include: 
 
Rabecka Marie Collins 
Caleigh Grace Drummer 
Scott Edward Dyl 
Anna Aleksandrovna Gayday 
Jennifer Lynn Sewell 
Danielle H. Sullivan 
Adam Perry Tow 

IMPORTANT DATES AND DEADLINES 

JUNE 2010 
 
SUMMER C WITHDRAWAL DEADLINE 
 25th 
 
SUMMER A CLASSES END 
 25th 
 
SUMMER B CLASSES BEGIN 
 28th 
 
JULY 2010 
 

Magna Cum Laude honors  
designees (top 5 percent, but not in the top 2.5 percent)  
include: 
 
Regine Laurence Chauvet 
Heather Ray Flynn 
Margaret Ann Heaton 
Teresa Lydia Huskisson 
Maria Gabriela Solano 
Kaleigh Rose Thacker 
Melissa Ussa 

What IS Up?                                   Page 2 

Kathleen Ann Butcher 
Victorial Elizabeth Chetta 
Matthew Joseph Delvalle 
Sarah Jane Dixon 
Leeron Franco 
Angela Mary Hamilton 
Lena Ramesh Manek 
Jacquelynn Nicole McPherson 
Jessica Ann Merritt 
Sarah Elizabeth Oppenheim 
Christy Joy Reese 
Baron Scott Renneisen 
Crystal Lynn Rogers 
Stephanie Kincer Shafer 
Nepton Sheikh Khoni 
Emily Jo Simpson 
Misty Rose Stinnett 
Phyllis Ann Chandler Turner 
Joaquin Zabalza 

Cum Laude honors designees (students in the top 10 percent, but not top 5 percent) include: 

SUMMER B DROP DEADLINE 
 1st 
 
SUMMER B ADD DEADLINE 
 2nd 
 
SUMMER B WITHDRAWAL DEADLINE 
 16th 
 
AUGUST 2010 
 
SUMMER B & C CLASSES END 
 6th 
 
COMMENCEMENT 
 7th 
 



Name: Tristen Bergholtz 
Major: Interdisciplinary Studies, B.S. 
Entering college I assumed I would major in business because everybody else I met at the freshman socials were doing the same. In all actuality, I had ab-solutely no idea what I wanted to major in. I knew I could get by my first year without declaring a major and throughout my first year I began explor-ing my options and interests. I eventually realized was not the job for me and education appealed to my areas of interest. After taking several education courses and successfully passing the required national exam for admission into the College of Education, I became bored with the discussion of general issues in education and was interested in learning more about gritty details. I knew students came to school each day after having faced their own unique set of issues at home and were expected to learn in the same environment, but I wasn't sure what these individual situations might look like or how they would play out in the classroom.  
At this point, I decided to choose IDS as my major. I already had the requirements for my concentration in educa-tion fulfilled and after considering how I might be able to get a better glimpse into the lives of my future students I chose my second concentration as Public Affairs and my minor in Sociology.        Bergholtz continued on page 4 

Bergholtz continued from page 3. 
During my studies as an IDS major, I found exactly what I had been searching for. My desire to get involved in education and "make a difference" grew. 
In the fall semester of my senior year at UCF, I saw some yard signs advertising a program called Teach for Amer-ica. After visiting the website and talking to a recruitment director on the phone I was completely sold! I learned that 50% of students from low-income communities will not graduate high school by the time they are 18 and that those who do graduate high school perform, on average, at the level of 8th graders in higher-income communities.  I learned that I had been accepted into the program and that I would be teaching Special Education in South Lou-isiana. I currently live in New Roads, LA, which is a small rural community in LA. At the beginning of the school year, I was teaching 12th grade students who were reading on a Pre-K level because they simply had never been taught how to read.  I am proud to say that I am finishing my first year as a teacher and my 12th graders are fin-ishing their last year of school now reading on a 1st and 2nd grade level. 


ALUMNI SHARE THEIR STORIES 

Name:  Michael J. G. McLaughlin 
Major: Liberal  Studies, B.S. 
Track, Areas, and Minor(s): Business, Political Science and Public Affairs 
 
After graduating from UCF in 2003 with a degree in Liberal Studies, I went to work for a large financial brokerage house and found that it wasn.t what I wanted for a career. I had a deeper desire to give more to my community. In 2005, I joined the Marketing Depart-ment of our region.s largest supporter of health and human services – The Heart of Flor-ida United Way. In Marketing, I was responsible for branding, collateral materials, special events, advertising and media relations. Now, I.m an Account Executive in the Resource Development Department. My job allows me to be involved with initiatives for staff train-ing, event sponsorships and internships. A primary portion of my job is working with local companies to provide their employees the opportunity to help our neighbors in need of assistance. I work with several industries and meet with many contacts from each. I could be talking with a HR representative one hour, calling on a community relations professional the next or meeting with a CEO. Because I was able to take a diverse set of courses with the Liberal Studies degree, I.m pre-pared to work with people from different walks of life and that ultimately helps me to build better relationships.  
 
What I like best about my profession is that I do a multitude of activities. I.m able to assist my organization through the varied skills sets I have. The degree I received definitely has added to my ability to have a job with several functions. I knew one thing very clearly when I was an undergrad – that I didn.t know exactly what I wanted in a career, but that I had a lot of different interests. Today, I use practices learned from all three of my degree areas in my work. My advice to current students is to: 1) find your interests 2) perfect your given skills and 3) seek internships and mentors who will help you in a career. 

Alumni Corner
Tristen Bergholtz 
Class of 2009 


What IS Up?                                   Page 3 

Michael McLaughlin 
Class of 2003 




ALUMNI SHARE THEIR STORIES 

Alumni Corner
What IS Up?                                   Page 4 

Name:  Kevin Jardaneh 
Major: Interdisciplinary Studies, M.S. 
 
Being a person of diverse background, personally and professionally, and of many interests in general, UCF.s Interdisciplinary Studies graduate program seemed a perfect way to channel these interests into a formal graduate degree.  I wanted a program that would allow me the freedom to explore the subject of cognitive de-velopment from various angles, so that I might develop an integral understanding of how the mind works.  To this end, I chose to pursue the Master of Arts in Inter-disciplinary Studies concurrently with UCF.s Cognitive Science Graduate Certificate.  The curriculum for the Cognitive Science Certificate served to fulfill most of the course requirements for the Interdisciplinary Master.s degree while providing some added structure.  It was only during my studies that I was able to incorporate my love of reading into what is quickly becoming my academic niche. 
 
My courses predominately included psychology, philosophy (cognitive science) and linguistics, but I was also able to wrap in a few intriguing elective courses, such as one entitled “Studies in Persuasion” through the Communica-tions Department.  It was only through the benefit of exploring diverse aspects of cognitive development through various approaches, and many discussions with my advisors and professors, that I realized how important tradi-tional text-based narrative has been to cognitive development throughout human history, and how fast the face of narrative is changing in the context of today.s digital age. With the interdisciplinary foundation I have attained through UCF.s Interdisciplinary Studies program, I feel confident that as I begin my doctoral studies here in UCF.s Text and Technology Program, I will be able to continue along this same academic thread to forge a place in this new and exciting field.  UCF.s Interdisciplinary Studies Master.s Program embraces a philosophy of „freedom within structure. so as to allow each student to find and follow his or her own passion, and it has been a great experience from start to finish. 


Kevin Jardaneh 
Class of 2009 

If you are an I.S. alumnus and would like to be recognized in the next “Alumni Corner” section, please send your name, degree, year of graduation, and a brief summary of what you have been doing to maturner@mail.ucf.edu. 



What IS Up?                                   Page 5 

OPPORTUNITIES
RESEARCH ASSISTANT 
Department: Office of Undergraduate Studies – Unifying Theme 
Position Type: Paid or Credit 
Qualifications: Technology and Computer Skills, Interested in Environmental Issues 
Duties:  This project will focus on designing a campus self-guided tour highlighting the sustainable practices and environmental initiatives underway at UCF.  The project will work with the latest technology to develop program-ming that will provide campus visitors, students, faculty, and staff information about the technology and facilities on campus that are being used to achieve UCF.s commitment to becoming carbon-neutral.   
Comments: We are seeking a group of 3-5 students to work on this project.  This project is ideal for students in-terested in RAMP and/or HIM.  The project will last for the 2010-2011 Academic Year with a proposed deadline for completion by the end of the Spring 2011 term. Students will be working directly with Dr. Michael Hampton, Direc-tor of Interdisciplinary Studies, and Aaron Godwin, Office Assistant and Coordinator for the Unifying Theme. Stu-dents with experience in environmental studies and technology skills as well as Interdisciplinary Studies and Com-puter Science majors are encouraged to apply.   
Please submit a current C/V or Resume to ajgodwin@mail.ucf.edu.  Qualified applicants will be contacted to sched-ule an interview.   
Skills: Experience with computers, programming, mobile broadband devices and Apple® products and an interest in environmental issues, sustainable practices and the UCF Community are desired but not all are necessary.   
Start Date: Fall 2010 
Faculty Mentor: Dr. Michael Hampton 

PEER ADVISOR 
Department: Office of Undergraduate Studies 
Position Type: Paid 
Duties:  Assisting IDS students in declaring major and developing a plan of study. Training will be provided.  
Closing Date: June 25th, 2010 
Please submit a Resume and cover letter referencing the position to irios@mail.ucf.edu.  Qualified applicants will be contacted to schedule an interview.   

STUDENT ASSISTANT 
Department: Office of Undergraduate Studies 
Position Type: Paid 
Duties:  Assisting with office duties at the reception area. Training will be provided.  
Closing Date: June 25th, 2010 
Please submit a Resume and cover letter referencing the position to irios@mail.ucf.edu.  Qualified applicants will be contacted to schedule an interview.   





OPPORTUNITIES
What IS Up?                                   Page 6 

 
HEART OF FLORIDA UNITED WAY 
INTERN POSITION DESCRIPTION 
 
TITLE: Campaign Initiatives Intern 
REPORTS TO: Account Executive 
DEPARTMENT: Resource Development 
FLSA: non-paid, 20 hours/week; flexible schedule 
 
POSITION OBJECTIVE:  
The Campaign Initiative Intern will manage the research and logistics of the Resource Development.s external initia-tives for engaging donors. The intern will support multiple Account Executives and the Director of Leadership Giving with planning for events and presentations.  
 
PRIMARY JOB RESPONSIBILITIES/DUTIES:  
. Conduct research and planning for the start of Student United Way (an initiative focused on engaging college students with United Way)  

. Conduct research and planning for United Way Young Leaders (an initiative focused on engaging working profes-sionals with United Way between the ages of 21 - 40) 

. Contact corporate partners to verify account information 

. Attend meetings of internal cross-functional teams 

. Assist Account Executive with the planning of Steering Committee meetings 

. Assist with presentations and reports to Steering Committee 

. Schedule meetings with corporate partners on behalf of Account Executive 

. Track progress of ongoing projects by ensuring completion of weekly reports and reviewing with the Account Ex-ecutive 

. Attend bi-weekly meetings with all department interns and the Account Executive 


 
INTERN BENEFITS:  
. Exposure to community leaders and businesses  

. Leadership training/Business development  

. Visits to supported United Way non-profit agencies 


 
PHYSICAL DEMANDS:  
Physical demands include sitting and/or standing for extended periods of time; bending, regularly moving between buildings and floors, regular use of the telephone, copier, fax and computer. Reliable transportation required. Job involves frequent and routinely intense public contact as well as protracted concentration.  
 
EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE:  
. Requires strong organizational, follow-up, analytical, and problem solving skills.  

. Requires excellent verbal and written communication skills and good interpersonal skills demonstrated through consistent working relationships with fellow employees, phone interchange, and demonstrated dependability.  

. Requires ability to edit, proofread, complete and assemble reports, and the ability to operate standard office equipment; i.e. copiers, fax, telephone, computer and calculator. 

. Requires knowledge of computer applications (including Microsoft Excel, Word, and Outlook) and use of internet. 






OPPORTUNITIES
What IS Up?                                   Page 8 

 
HEART OF FLORIDA UNITED WAY 
INTERN POSITION DESCRIPTION 
 
TITLE: Campaign Management Intern 
REPORTS TO: Account Executive 
DEPARTMENT: Resource Development 
FLSA: non-paid, 21 hours/week; Monday, Wednesday, Friday 
 
POSITION OBJECTIVE:  
The Campaign Management Intern will be the lead intern for the Resource Development and support the Account Executive with planning for annual employee workplace giving campaigns.  
 
PRIMARY JOB RESPONSIBILITIES/DUTIES:  
. Coordinate scheduling and work flow for other department interns 

. Track progress of ongoing projects by ensuring completion of weekly reports and reviewing with the Account Ex-ecutive 

. Schedule bi-weekly meetings with all department interns and the Account Executive 

. Schedule meetings with corporate partners on behalf of Account Executive 

. Assist with presentations and reports to corporate partners 

. Assist Account Executive with the planning of workplace giving campaigns for Major Accounts (corporate partners that raise $100,000 or more annually) 

. Attend meetings of internal cross-functional teams 

. Assist Account Executive with recognition planning for Leadership donors (individuals that contribute $1,000 or more annually)  

. Contact corporate partners to verify account information 


 
INTERN BENEFITS:  
. Exposure to community leaders and businesses  

. Leadership training/Business development  

. Visits to supported United Way non-profit agencies 


 
PHYSICAL DEMANDS:  
Physical demands include sitting and/or standing for extended periods of time; bending, regularly moving between buildings and floors, regular use of the telephone, copier, fax and computer. Reliable transportation required. Job involves frequent and routinely intense public contact as well as protracted concentration.  
 
EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE:  
. Requires strong organizational, follow-up, analytical, and problem solving skills.  

. Requires excellent verbal and written communication skills and good interpersonal skills demonstrated through consistent working relationships with fellow employees, phone interchange, and demonstrated dependability.  

. Requires ability to edit, proofread, complete and assemble reports, and the ability to operate standard office equipment; i.e. copiers, fax, telephone, computer and calculator. 

. Requires knowledge of computer applications (including Microsoft Excel, Word, and Outlook) and use of internet. 






What IS Up? is published by The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies 
at the University of Central Florida. 
 
 
 
UCF Stands for Opportunity: The University of Central Florida is a metropolitan research  
university that ranks as the 6th largest in the nation with more than 48,000 students. UCF.s  
first classes were offered in 1968. The university offers impressive academic and research  
environments that power the region.s economic development. UCF.s culture of opportunity is  
driven by our diversity, Orlando environment, history of entrepreneurship and our youth,  
relevance and energy. 
 
University of Central Florida 
The Office of Interdisciplinary Studies 
Michael Hampton, Director. 
4000 Central Florida Boulevard 
Classroom Building 1, Suite 302 
Orlando, FL 32816-1998 
 
 
http://www.is.ucf.edu 
Phone: (407) 823-0144 
Fax: (407) 823-2028 




